The idea was clear. Capture moving
images, transmit them over large
distances, and display them at the other
end. It didn't exist yet, but it was
obvious that something like that would
be cool. Then, in 1925, Scottish
inventor John Logie Baird came up with
this, the first ever television. The
subject would sit in front of a spinning
disc, which had 30 holes equally spaced
in a spiral pattern. As it spun, the
holes would scan across a window,
capturing the entire frame in a series
of 30 vertical lines. As each hole
passed the window, it allowed light into
the machine, where it was focused onto a
photoelectric cell. This was made from
thallium, a material that generated
electricity based on its exposure to
light. The more light that it received,
the more electricity it would generate.
As the holes scanned the subject, the
photoelectric cell would measure the
changes in brightness and turn that into
an electrical signal. This was then
transmitted using either radio waves or
telephone cable to the display. From
there, the process would basically
happen in reverse. First, the signal was
amplified and sent to a light bulb,
which was placed behind an identical
spinning disc. As the disc spun, the
electrical signal would vary the
brightness of the light, which would
fall onto a glass screen at the front of
the machine. Although this was simply a
dot of light, it painted the entire
frame so quickly that the human eye
would blur it into a single image. It
wasn't perfect. 30 lines produced a
pretty poor resolution, and with only
five frames per second, the playback was
choppy. But Baird's idea of the
television was now a reality.